README.md, before:

# RE-DACT: Advanced Document Redaction Tool

RE-DACT is a powerful, user-friendly document redaction tool designed to protect sensitive information in various document formats. With its modern interface and comprehensive feature set, it provides an efficient way to redact personal information, business data, and other sensitive content.

![RE-DACT Tool](screenshots/main_window.png)

## Features

### Core Functionality
- **Multi-Format Support**
  - Text files (.txt)
  - Word documents (.docx)
  - Excel spreadsheets (.xlsx)
  - PDF files (.pdf)
  - Images (.jpg, .jpeg, .png, .bmp, .gif, .tiff)

### Redaction Levels
1. **Basic (Level 1)**
   - Person names
   - Basic identifiers

2. **Intermediate (Level 2)**
   - Names
   - Organizations
   - Locations
   - Email addresses
   - Phone numbers

3. **Advanced (Level 3)**
   - All identifiers from levels 1 & 2
   - Social Security Numbers
   - Credit Card Numbers
   - Bank Account Numbers
   - IP Addresses
   - URLs
   - Dates
   - Custom patterns

### Advanced Features
- **Preview Mode**: Preview redactions before saving
- **Batch Processing**: Process multiple files at once
- **Custom Patterns**: Add your own redaction patterns
- **Dark/Light Theme**: Toggle between dark and light modes
- **Progress Tracking**: Real-time progress indication
- **Undo/Redo**: Track and reverse changes
- **Settings Persistence**: Save and restore user preferences

## Workflow

The following diagram illustrates the complete workflow of the RE-DACT tool:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Start<br/>Initialize GUI] --> B[User Action: Select File]
    B --> C[User Action: Select Redaction Level<br/>Level 1, 2 or 3]
    C --> D[Redact Text File<br/>spaCy, RegEx]
    C --> E[Redact Image File<br/>OCR with Tesseract Image Draw]
    C --> F[Redact PDF File<br/>Convert Images, OCR, NER]
    C --> G[Redact Word Document<br/>Python-docx, NER]
    C --> H[Redact Excel File<br/>openpyxl, NER]
    D --> I[User Action: Save File]
    E --> I
    F --> I
    G --> I
    H --> I
    I --> J[End<br/>Display Success/Error Message]
```

This workflow demonstrates how RE-DACT handles different file types and processes them through appropriate redaction pipelines based on the selected redaction level.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.6 or higher
- Tesseract OCR

### Step 1: Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/re-dact.git
cd re-dact
```

### Step 2: Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Step 3: Install Tesseract OCR
- **Windows**:
  1. Download installer from [Tesseract GitHub](https://github.com/UB-Mannheim/tesseract/wiki)
  2. Run the installer
  3. Add Tesseract to system PATH

- **Linux**:
  ```bash
  sudo apt-get install tesseract-ocr
  ```

- **macOS**:
  ```bash
  brew install tesseract
  ```

### Step 4: Install Language Model
```bash
python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage
1. Launch the application:
   ```bash
   python redact_tool.py
   ```

2. Select a file using the "Browse" button
3. Choose redaction level (Basic, Intermediate, or Advanced)
4. Click "Preview" to see the results (optional)
5. Click "Redact" to process the file

### Batch Processing
1. Click "File" → "Batch Process"
2. Select a folder containing files to process
3. Choose output location
4. All supported files will be processed automatically

### Custom Patterns
1. Click "Edit" → "Add Custom Pattern"
2. Enter pattern name and regular expression
3. New pattern will be applied in subsequent redactions

### Theme Customization
- Click "View" → "Toggle Theme" to switch between light and dark modes

## Security Features

### Pattern Detection
- Email addresses
- Phone numbers
- Social Security Numbers
- Credit card numbers
- Bank account numbers
- Physical addresses
- IP addresses
- URLs
- Dates
- Custom patterns

### Data Protection
- Original files are never modified
- Secure overwriting of sensitive information
- Logging of all redaction activities
- Error handling and validation

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Tesseract not found**:
   - Ensure Tesseract is installed
   - Verify PATH environment variable

2. **File Processing Errors**:
   - Check file permissions
   - Verify file format compatibility
   - Ensure sufficient disk space

3. **Performance Issues**:
   - Reduce image size for large files
   - Use batch processing for multiple files
   - Close other resource-intensive applications

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- spaCy for NLP capabilities
- Tesseract for OCR functionality
- Python community for various libraries

## Support

For support, please:
1. Check the troubleshooting guide
2. Review existing issues
3. Create a new issue with detailed information

## Research Documentation

For detailed research and development documentation, please refer to our [Team Rookie Research Document](https://tinyurl.com/Team-Rookie-Research). This document contains comprehensive information about the tool's development process, research findings, and implementation details.

---

Made with ❤️ by Team Rookie

Commit message:

Team Rookie: Update research documentation description

README.md, after:

# RE-DACT: Advanced Document Redaction Tool

RE-DACT is a powerful, user-friendly document redaction tool designed to protect sensitive information in various document formats. With its modern interface and comprehensive feature set, it provides an efficient way to redact personal information, business data, and other sensitive content.

![RE-DACT Tool](screenshots/main_window.png)

## Features

### Core Functionality
- **Multi-Format Support**
  - Text files (.txt)
  - Word documents (.docx)
  - Excel spreadsheets (.xlsx)
  - PDF files (.pdf)
  - Images (.jpg, .jpeg, .png, .bmp, .gif, .tiff)

### Redaction Levels
1. **Basic (Level 1)**
   - Person names
   - Basic identifiers

2. **Intermediate (Level 2)**
   - Names
   - Organizations
   - Locations
   - Email addresses
   - Phone numbers

3. **Advanced (Level 3)**
   - All identifiers from levels 1 & 2
   - Social Security Numbers
   - Credit Card Numbers
   - Bank Account Numbers
   - IP Addresses
   - URLs
   - Dates
   - Custom patterns

### Advanced Features
- **Preview Mode**: Preview redactions before saving
- **Batch Processing**: Process multiple files at once
- **Custom Patterns**: Add your own redaction patterns
- **Dark/Light Theme**: Toggle between dark and light modes
- **Progress Tracking**: Real-time progress indication
- **Undo/Redo**: Track and reverse changes
- **Settings Persistence**: Save and restore user preferences

## Workflow

The following diagram illustrates the complete workflow of the RE-DACT tool:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Start<br/>Initialize GUI] --> B[User Action: Select File]
    B --> C[User Action: Select Redaction Level<br/>Level 1, 2 or 3]
    C --> D[Redact Text File<br/>spaCy, RegEx]
    C --> E[Redact Image File<br/>OCR with Tesseract Image Draw]
    C --> F[Redact PDF File<br/>Convert Images, OCR, NER]
    C --> G[Redact Word Document<br/>Python-docx, NER]
    C --> H[Redact Excel File<br/>openpyxl, NER]
    D --> I[User Action: Save File]
    E --> I
    F --> I
    G --> I
    H --> I
    I --> J[End<br/>Display Success/Error Message]
```

This workflow demonstrates how RE-DACT handles different file types and processes them through appropriate redaction pipelines based on the selected redaction level.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.6 or higher
- Tesseract OCR

### Step 1: Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/re-dact.git
cd re-dact
```

### Step 2: Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Step 3: Install Tesseract OCR
- **Windows**:
  1. Download installer from [Tesseract GitHub](https://github.com/UB-Mannheim/tesseract/wiki)
  2. Run the installer
  3. Add Tesseract to system PATH

- **Linux**:
  ```bash
  sudo apt-get install tesseract-ocr
  ```

- **macOS**:
  ```bash
  brew install tesseract
  ```

### Step 4: Install Language Model
```bash
python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage
1. Launch the application:
   ```bash
   python redact_tool.py
   ```

2. Select a file using the "Browse" button
3. Choose redaction level (Basic, Intermediate, or Advanced)
4. Click "Preview" to see the results (optional)
5. Click "Redact" to process the file

### Batch Processing
1. Click "File" → "Batch Process"
2. Select a folder containing files to process
3. Choose output location
4. All supported files will be processed automatically

### Custom Patterns
1. Click "Edit" → "Add Custom Pattern"
2. Enter pattern name and regular expression
3. New pattern will be applied in subsequent redactions

### Theme Customization
- Click "View" → "Toggle Theme" to switch between light and dark modes

## Security Features

### Pattern Detection
- Email addresses
- Phone numbers
- Social Security Numbers
- Credit card numbers
- Bank account numbers
- Physical addresses
- IP addresses
- URLs
- Dates
- Custom patterns

### Data Protection
- Original files are never modified
- Secure overwriting of sensitive information
- Logging of all redaction activities
- Error handling and validation

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Tesseract not found**:
   - Ensure Tesseract is installed
   - Verify PATH environment variable

2. **File Processing Errors**:
   - Check file permissions
   - Verify file format compatibility
   - Ensure sufficient disk space

3. **Performance Issues**:
   - Reduce image size for large files
   - Use batch processing for multiple files
   - Close other resource-intensive applications

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- spaCy for NLP capabilities
- Tesseract for OCR functionality
- Python community for various libraries

## Support

For support, please:
1. Check the troubleshooting guide
2. Review existing issues
3. Create a new issue with detailed information

## Research Documentation

For a comprehensive market analysis of existing redaction tools and their limitations, please refer to our [Market Research Document](https://tinyurl.com/Team-Rookie-Research). This document provides detailed comparisons of current redaction tools in the market, their shortcomings, and how RE-DACT addresses these limitations.

---

Made with ❤️ by Team Rookie
